Detail a sprint process for the Enarx project (#27)
enarx/rfcs: 00001-enarx-sprint-framework/README.md

work. This RFC proposes a replacement process, designed around the agile sprint
methodology.

## Motivation

The Enarx project needs to organize its work better, and in a more sustainable
way than before. We need to do a better job planning for medium-term work and
goals, and in a way that scales more effectively than our prior process.

### Tracking Work

As a Github-native project, Enarx categorizes its work with the two major
primitives available: **issues** and **pull requests** (sometimes abbreviated
PRs).

- **Issues** on Github take the form of a simple text note in Markdown. Each one
  has a title and can be assigned metadata such as labels and assignees.
  
  They represent work that needs to be planned, implemented, or otherwise
  completed. An issue may encapsulate any task related to the project, and
  scope can vary wildly from one issue to the next; where one may be a simple
  formatting fix, others might be a radical design change. Presently (and for
  the foreseeable future), the Enarx project uses them exclusively to organize
  tasks yet to be done, discussion topics, and more (even when not strictly

>   needed).

Reviewer: To be accepted, an issue **must** be well-scoped, and have a definition of "done".  Those writing issues are encouraged to specify or suggests tests to help the assignees to complete the task as expected.

Each issue should also be small enough to be accomplished within one Sprint: if not, it should be decomposed.  In the rare situations where this is not possible, sign-off by the Product Owner is required to spread it over multiple Sprints.

Author: I've added a section under "Planning" called "Acceptance Criteria" for this in my latest push.

organized use of these primitives, augmented by processes designed around them.

## Team Roles

Traditional agile methodologies converge broadly around a set of roles for team
members to fall into. As a starting point, it may be worth considering the
three roles in [Atlassian's](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/scrum/roles) scrum
guidelines:

- Product owner: project leadership in touch with the larger organization. They
  are most responsible for understanding project needs and pushing the project
  where it needs to go.
- Scrum master: responsible for running sprint meetings and ensuring the entire
  process runs smoothly
- Development team: people working on individual components of the project. Not
  necessarily developers; may also encapsulate docs writers, outreach, or other
  roles.

This proposal will focus most broadly on the responsibilities of individual
development team members as well as project leadership from the above
definitions.

## Common Concepts

A few things will be referenced throughout the proposal; they will be defined
here.

### Triage

Triage is where the team will categorize newly-filed issues and pull requests,

> and where stakeholders will be able to express needed urgency over those items.

Reviewer: Stakeholders are not defined.  This is important, as they are the ones making decisions about what to accept.  If we mean "Product Owner", then let's say so.  If others are involved, we should specify.

Author: Fixed in latest push.

- under review: all submitted PRs go here while awaiting review
- done: all issues and PRs go here when done or merged, respectively

Here's a quick diagram:

![Complete issue workflow diagram](./project-board.svg)

In more technical terms, this would be an organization-level Github project
board. This will allow for issues and PRs across _any_ Enarx repository (not
just the main one) to be included, which supports modularization of the project
as it grows.

## Meetings

The concepts and processes introduced above are put into action in the form of
several team meetings that happen throughout the process of a single sprint.

To start, consider this high-level overview of how an issue progresses through
the process, beginning with its opening and continuing all the way until it's
considered done:

![Complete issue workflow diagram](./full-process.svg)

This flowchart introduces the three crucial events of the process, each of
which is encapsulated by its own team meeting:
 
 - **Planning**, a meeting representing the start of a new sprint
 - **Daily Standup**, the team's daily meeting where, among other things,
   **Triage** is performed.

>  - **Retrospective**, or "Retro" for short, a meeting representing the

Reviewer: Suggest change to "Review" - as discussed in the call, the retro is only part of the review.

Author: Sure, makes sense. I've updated to reflect the name change in my next push.

   end of a sprint

Once an issue is filed, it will be categorized and discussed in Triage. If
urgent, it's injected straight into the current sprint; if not, it gets pushed
to the backlog. From there, the rest of the cycle will carry it through to
completion: Sprint Planning will sooner or later land it as part of a sprint,
where it will become a team member's action item to complete. At the end of the
sprint, Sprint Retro will allow the team to acknowledge its completion or need
for extra time as appropriate. When finished, the issue is considered complete.

The following sections will dive deep into the process of each meeting,
carefully considering actions that need to be taken, who should be responsible
for those actions, and how automation might be able to aid those actions.

### Planning

Sprint planning constitutes the beginning of a new sprint. It's where the team
and project leadership collectively decide what the project's focus should be.

The sprint planning process is illustrated in the following flowchart:

![Sprint Planning Diagram](./sprint-planning.svg)

> 

Reviewer 2: This is a detail, but what do the diamonds vs. squares mean?

Author: They're standard (ish) ISO flowchart shapes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flowchart

I've added an appendix that explains what they mean in the context of this RFC. Pushing soon.

Note that sprint planning only considers issues, not pull requests.

The meeting will start with a triage, as described above. This exists to ensure
no issues are uncategorized before the planning step. (This is necessary since
sprint planning will supersede the day's standup and, consequently, its triage,
as described later.)

With the backlog fully up to date after the triage, the entire team will take
a small amount of time to **nominate** issues from the area they work on that
they think are most compelling. It should be each individual team member's

> responsibility to nominate issues of interest _before_ planning begins;

Reviewer 2: This is a bit buried, but I think is very important so that we don't get bogged down in going through every single backlog issue during nominations or have to wait while people make decisions. An inefficient process here would cut into our time for targeted discussion or make it likely that the meeting runs over-time.

In fact, I would argue that during triage, we should have the choice of moving non-urgent issues either to backlog or, if likely to be a priority for next sprint, then straight to "nominated"; this allows us to speed up our individual pre-planning nomination process by being able to quickly throw a small amount of issues from "nominated" into backlog if we want to de-prioritize them, rather than combing through a large amount of backlog issues to remember what we wanted to add to "nominated." 

If the above idea is too unorthodox for sprints, at the very least I think the responsibility described here that the development team moves issues into "nominated" before planning should be a semi-hard requirement. Last minute-nominations can make sense, but they should be the exception and the time limit on this should be enforced.

This way we have adequate time to discuss all the nominations and we minimize (individually and as a team) the process of searching through dozens of backlog issues to find a specific issue we know we want to nominate (but may have forgotten the exact wording of the title, etc.) while preparing for sprints.

Author: I personally like that idea. Maybe it can be a new state in the triage process flowchart if the issue is decided to be "not urgent".

Reviewer 2: I didn't see where / if this was addressed, but maybe since it's a small detail it makes more sense to discuss as a team rather than put it in the document. Especially as I don't know others' thoughts on it.

however, some time may be allowed for last-minute nominations. A general rule
of thumb to follow should be that every team member nominates twice the work
they think they are able to do in a given sprint.

Once nomination is complete, the **Proposed** board column will be populated
with a full set of proposed issues to work on for the next sprint. Issues may
also arrive in this column if they were not started in the previous sprint. The
process for determining such issues is further detailed in the Retrospective
meeting (detailed more below).

> With that done, the project's stakeholders now have the responsibility to

Reviewer: As noted above, the "stakeholders" are not defined.

Author: Fixed in latest push.

- 15 min: volunteering and assignment

### Daily Standup

Daily standup is the team's daily check-in meeting, and when the **Triage**
process is performed. It should provide an opportunity for individual
contributors (and guests) to ask questions, elaborate on blockers, and ask for
help if needed.

As noted before, triage is the single most important component of this meeting,
and should therefore be done first. The exact process of triage is detailed
separately in the [Triage](#triage) section. Triage should not be strictly
time-bound; if productive discussions are happening around a new issue or PR,
those should be allowed to happen naturally.

The decision to make triage a part of daily standup is deliberate: it allows
issues and PRs filed by "drive-by" contributors (that is, people not part of
the project that still wish to contribute) to receive human consideration after
a maximum of 24 working hours -- a desirable property for open source.

Following triage, the scrum master will pull up the sprint board for an informal
board review. This does not need to go over every single issue; rather, it
should be an opportunity for team members to point out highlights or interesting

> updates to their tasks, and request help on blockers or otherwise.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be helpful to have a "show of hands" for this part of the meeting re: how many people want to talk about a highlight or blocker. The "round the horn" process we use currently has the advantage of making it immediately obvious how many people will want to say something (i.e., the total number in the meeting) and so pacing of the meeting flows from this naturally. If an unknown number of people have comments to make during this portion, we run into the danger of either 1) the meeting being cut short before everyone gets their say, or 2) the meeting running over-time. Therefore I propose a quick 5-second check before we move into this portion of how many people will bring up a discussion item, like a mini-agenda.

Author: Not a bad idea! I've added that in my latest revision.

Finally, the rest of the meeting should be dedicated to open-ended project
discussion. If there are guests to the call, the team should welcome them and
allow them to ask questions. If there are any other topics to cover, they should
be brought up here.

Standup should take no longer than a half-hour, and should be scheduled as
follows:

- 10-15 min: triage

> - 15-20 min: Board review/project discussion (however long is left after triage)

Reviewer: Where does discussion of "blockers" come in?  This is an important part of stand-ups.

Author: During board review, as detailed a paragraph or two back. I've put in a small reminder on that line in my next push to make it clear, though.

The final meeting is **Retrospective**, which represents the end of a
sprint. It is a time for the whole team to reflect on work accomplished, demo
new things, and discuss how to approach tasks that didn't get completed.

Most of these topics will take the form of discussion. The only significant
process to detail here is the workflow for reviewing issues and PRs from the
last sprint, which is what should happen first.

![Sprint Retro diagram](./sprint-retro.svg)

Any issues that don't have an associated PR are assumed to be "not started".
However, any issue that made it into the sprint in the first place is probably
still important, so it should be considered as such for the next sprint as well.
Thus, it will be sent to the next Planning meeting as a Proposed issue (see
[Planning](#planning) for more details).

If it _does_ have an associated PR, the next question to ask is whether that
associated PR was merged or not. If it was, then the issue is completed. If not,
that means the PR is still in review and likely just needs a bit more review
time. Thus, it should stay as-is in the Under Review column.

Beyond that, the rest of the meeting should be dedicated to demos or other

> high-level discussion about work accomplished.

Reviewer 2: Should demos be assigned as part of the sprint? Does the sprint take into account the time spent on creating a demo in addition to resolving issues? Do we care if we end up with zero demos or a very large number of demos for a sprint? Do we want to have bounds on this?

Author: Great question.

For the moment, I'd imagine we'd have to lump the cycles needed to produce a demo in with the overall task, or define making the demo as a separate task. In any case, this is something the team would have to discuss during the prioritization/bandwidth discussion part of sprint planning.

Reviewer 3: > Should demos be assigned as part of the sprint? Does the sprint take into account the time spent on creating a demo in addition to resolving issues?

Normally, they should. Demos should really be just that, a demonstration of what has been accomplished during the sprint, so the whole team and stakeholders can come around what they have built and see progress. This is based on the idea that each sprint should deliver incremental value, and that every sprint as such always produces working code. We may be still a bit away from that, so i would loosen that requirement to just demonstrating what has been worked on and progress there, not adamantly requiring that it is a "usable increment".

Retrospectives should take a full hour. As detailed in [Planning](#planning),
the two meetings should be combined, with Retrospective happening first,
replacing the standup of the first day of a new sprint.

Here's a proposed schedule:

> - 20 min: review issues/PRs from last sprint

Reviewer: Demos first, if for no other reason that we will sometimes invite visitors, and they shouldn't have to sit through the rest of the meeting.

Author: Agreed, good point. Fixed in my next push.

- 40 min: demos or other discussion

## Pull Requests

The meetings above detail how we organize and plan our work with issues. This
section will elaborate how the team should execute that work with pull requests.

As described [above](#tracking-work), pull requests encapsulate the end of a
task. Pushing them across the finish line, whether that means providing review
or addressing those reviews, should always be a priority. As such, it's
important to communicate who needs to take action on a PR at any given time. The
Enarx project's current workflow does not do this well, and it's an obvious area
for improvement.

### Workflow

Here's a flowchart of the new and improved proposed workflow for a pull request,
starting with a PR's submission and going all the way to its merge:

![PR workflow diagram](./pr-workflow.svg)

As with every issue, every PR will be reviewed through a Triage, during which

> reviewers will be requested and assigned. At least two reviewers must be

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that if a PR comes in and you feel motivated to review it, you should *not* review it until the next day's triage? Or does it mean that you can review it and become and "optional reviewer", and other reviewers may be assigned the next day? The latter makes more sense to me.

Author: Yes, the latter.

The implication for someone submitting a "changes requested" review is that they're on board to keep reviewing the PR until their feedback is resolved. That shouldn't need to wait for a formal triage process. That's mostly there to ensure that PRs _have_ the necessary reviewers.

choose not to review it; however, if they _do_ submit a review, they are
expected to follow through the entire process until the PR is merged.

Note that the flowchart follows the flow for an individual reviewer and the
author; this process is replicated for every individual reviewer involved with
the PR.

The cycle starts with the `reviewer_assigned` state, which indicates that it's
the reviewer's responsibility to submit a PR review.

Once the reviewer submits a review, two things can happen based on the content:

- If the review approves of the PR, it moves into the `approved` state for that
  individual author. From here, the PR waits on other reviewers until it meets
  the criteria for merge (detailed [below](#merge-criteria)).
- If the review requests changes, it moves into the `reviewed` state. A PR can
  arrive here either through an assigned reviewer submitting a review, or
  through a "drive-by" reviewer that requests changes.

Once a PR is in the `reviewed` state, automation will take care of updating
assignees to reflect whose responsibility the PR is at the present time:

- The reviewer that submitted the review is unassigned.

> - The PR author is assigned to the PR to address the reviewer's feedback.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is implied, but it seems that the PR author should only be re-assigned to the PR if the reviewer did in fact request changes. Another option is the reviewer approved, in which case the re-assignment of the PR author is unnecessary. I think it would be annoying for a PR author to see they are re-assigned to an issue, only to check it and see they have no changes to make.

Author: Yeah, it might be helpful to update the wording here. The "reviewed" state really indicates "changes requested" I think.

I'll also note there is a separate state for explicit approval, and that doesn't involve any reassignment. It's true, though, that this doesn't handle a "review that doesn't request changes". In either case, the submitter doesn't need to do anything.

point, it's the author's responsibility to address the review they've received.

When the author believes they have addressed the reviewer's feedback, they must
request a re-review using the button present in the Assignees tab next to the
Changes Requested indicator:

![PR workflow diagram](request-rereview.png)

This is represented by the `request_rereview` state
in the flowchart. From here, automation again helps the process along:

- If the author does not have any other outstanding reviews, they are unassigned
  from the PR.
- The reviewer that submitted the now-addressed review is re-assigned, and the
  PR is moved back to the `reviewer_assigned` state.
  
At this point, the cycle is complete, and it repeats from the beginning until
the reviewer is satisfied with the PR and submits their approval.

### Merge criteria

With a clear framework in place for reviewing and approving pull requests, it's
now more feasible for the Enarx project to begin enforcing stricter merge
requirements.

A pull request should only be merged when:

- it has two or more approving reviews
- every reviewer that has submitted a review has updated their review to
  "Approved"

> The latter exists to ensure that all feedback from all reviewers is addressed

Reviewer: Do we want to require tests for code-based PRs?

Author: I suppose I assumed that was implied. Code tests are currently required to pass anyway. We can make that an explicit requirement for merge if desired. (Makes more sense thinking about it, especially in the context of potentially auto-merging some PRs.)

- With automation, this process has potential to minimize the busywork that
  project developers have to deal with, and only require human judgment when it
  is needed.
- Running through a triage every day ensures issues are promptly reviewed by the
  team after they are submitted.

## Prior art

The Enarx project's current process of topic-specific boards largely informs
this proposal's approach to the backlog. In fact, this proposal could be
considered an extension or adaptation of the current process in some ways.

And, of course, the agile sprint methodology is widely employed just about
everywhere in software; see
[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/scrum/sprints) and
[Trello](https://blog.trello.com/beginners-guide-scrum-and-agile-project-management)
for good examples. And, of course, Red Hat
[itself](https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2017/06/29/agile-software-development-the-red-hat-way/)
uses it.

## Unresolved questions

The most significant unresolved question does not involve process, but rather
the automation we hope to pair with it: whether the project board will
live inside the main Enarx repository, or as an all-encompassing Enarx

> organization board.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this question resolved now? I see under "Project Board" it claims that the board will be organization-level.

Author: You are right. I've updated it locally and will push it up soon.

as it grows.

## Meetings

The concepts and processes introduced above are put into action in the form of
several team meetings that happen throughout the process of a single sprint.

To start, consider this high-level overview of how an issue progresses through
the process, beginning with its opening and continuing all the way until it's
considered done:

![Complete issue workflow diagram](./full-process.svg)

This flowchart introduces the three crucial events of the process, each of
which is encapsulated by its own team meeting:
 
 - **Planning**, a meeting representing the start of a new sprint
 - **Daily Standup**, the team's daily meeting where, among other things,
   **Triage** is performed.
 - **Review**, a meeting representing the end of a sprint where, among other
   things, **Retrospective** is performed.

Once an issue is filed, it will be categorized and discussed in Triage. If
urgent, it's injected straight into the current sprint; if not, it gets pushed
to the backlog. From there, the rest of the cycle will carry it through to
completion: Planning will sooner or later land it as part of a sprint, where it

> will become a team member's action item to complete. At the end of the sprint,

Reviewer 3: > Planning will sooner or later land it as part of a sprint

Probably, but there is no guarantee of this: what happens if an issue keeps staying in the backlog?

Not needed right now, but we should probably eventually add a time to cull old issues that are not getting put in sprints, as they have become stale. If they are in fact not stale, why they are not getting added to sprints should in itself be a question worth answering, as it's a sign of some other problem.

Author: Good point. I will add something to the Future Possibilities section.

a small amount of time to **nominate** issues from the area they work on that
they think are most compelling. It should be each individual team member's
responsibility to nominate issues of interest _before_ planning begins;
however, some time may be allowed for last-minute nominations. A general rule
of thumb to follow should be that every team member nominates twice the work
they think they are able to do in a given sprint.

#### Issue acceptance

Once nomination is complete, the **Proposed** board column will be populated
with a full set of proposed issues to work on for the next sprint. Issues may
also arrive in this column if they were not started in the previous sprint. The
process for determining such issues is further detailed in the [Review](#review)
meeting (detailed more below).

With that done, the product owners now have the responsibility to prioritize
the proposed work. If it's something that should get done in the next sprint,
the stakeholders can move it to **Accepted**; if it can wait, it should be
moved back to the backlog.

#### Acceptance criteria

It is the product owner's responsibility to only accept issues that meet

> acceptance criteria::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
acceptance criteria:
```

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> - it must be well-scoped, and have a clear definition of completion

Reviewer 3: Cf. comment on line 420 and following.

```suggestion
- it must be well-scoped, and have a clear definition of completion, including documentation if needed
```

Author: Added in my latest revision.

- it must be doable in a single sprint

If an issue cannot be accomplished in a single sprint, it should be decomposed.
In the rare scenario that an issue cannot be decomposed, it needs to be signed
off by the product owners to be included in a sprint.

Additionally, the product owners must be careful to accept a reasonable amount
of work from Proposed and not overload the team members. The purpose of this
step is not to express that all work is important; that's counterproductive and
doesn't accomplish anything.

> 

Reviewer 3: I really like both of these.

updates to their tasks, and request help on blockers or otherwise. To facilitate
this, the scrum master should ask the meeting's attendees for a quick show of
hands on if they have something they wish to talk about; this will allow the
scrum master to keep time constraints in mind and move conversations along if
they're taking up too much time.

Finally, the rest of the meeting should be dedicated to open-ended project
discussion. If there are guests to the call, the team should welcome them and
allow them to ask questions. If there are any other topics to cover, they should
be brought up here.

Standup should take no longer than a half-hour, and should be scheduled as
follows:

- 10-15 min: triage
- 15-20 min: Board review/blockers/project discussion (however long is left
  after triage)

### Review

The final meeting is **Review**, which represents the end of a
sprint. It is a time for the whole team to reflect on work accomplished, demo
new things, and discuss how to approach tasks that didn't get completed.

Most of these topics will take the form of discussion. The only significant
process to detail here is **Retrospective**, the workflow for reviewing issues

> and PRs from the last sprint.

Reviewer 3: I think calling this meeting **Review** is a good idea, however i take issue with calling **Retrospective** something that is disconnected from the [accepted meaning](http://retrospectivewiki.org/index.php?title=Agile_Retrospective_Resource_Wiki) of an agile retrospective, especially if we are telling folks we are basing our process on agile processes.

In light of this,
1. we should actually make time for engaging in retrospectives, as they are a good tool to ensure the "agile scaffolding" so to speak is working out for the team members and
2. call what is currently being termed "retrospective" an issue review, a card review, an end of sprint triage, or something like that.

Author: While perhaps not explicitly stated, I intended for point 1) to be addressed in the last 20 minutes of the meeting ("demos or other discussion" -- which should be simplified to "other discussion".)

I will clarify that those last 20 minutes should be for "retrospective".

As for 2)... I'm not really a fan of conflating "triage" with an "end of sprint triage". What about something like "end of sprint issue cleanup"?

![Sprint Retro diagram](./sprint-retro.svg)

> Any issues that don't have an associated PR are assumed to be "not started".

Reviewer 3: This assumes that issues are not code-related (outreach, documentation, mentoring) are never started. That being said, this can be manually sorted out, but there is some bias towards code-related issues here.

Author: The natural fix here is "Any issues that don't have an associated PR **and are still open**." Though you're still right that this doesn't communicate that "work has been done, but it's not quite shippable yet" -- though, then again, that's also a problem with issues that might be close to a PR, but not there yet.

The key thing here is a deliverable. For code issues, that's a PR. For non-code issues, that could be any number of other things. I can specify to make that a little more clear.

However, any issue that made it into the sprint in the first place is probably
still important, so it should be considered as such for the next sprint as well.
Thus, it will be sent to the next Planning meeting as a Proposed issue (see
[Planning](#planning) for more details).

If it _does_ have an associated PR, the next question to ask is whether that
associated PR was merged or not. If it was, then the issue is completed. If not,
that means the PR is still in review and likely just needs a bit more review
time. Thus, it should stay as-is in the Under Review column.

Retrospective should happen immediately following demos (if there are any).
Putting demos first allows those interested to see them without having to sit

> through the minutiae of project discussion.

Reviewer 3: This is good and makes sense, but makes even more sense if you consider/make explicit that all stakeholders should be invited to the demo: some of the stakeholders have no interest in the minutiae of project discussion but are very interested in seeing the progress made. We start with the demo to let them leave after.

Suggestion, add somewhere above the following:

> All stakeholders are invited to the demo, so they can get a sense of the progress made in the last sprint, or since they were last able to attend a demo.

Author: Added something to this effect.

Once these two are done, the PR moves into the `author_assigned` state. At this
point, it's the author's responsibility to address the review they've received.

When the author believes they have addressed the reviewer's feedback, they must
request a re-review using the button present in the Assignees tab next to the
Changes Requested indicator:

![PR workflow diagram](request-rereview.png)

This is represented by the `request_rereview` state
in the flowchart. From here, automation again helps the process along:

- If the author does not have any other outstanding reviews, they are unassigned
  from the PR.
- The reviewer that submitted the now-addressed review is re-assigned, and the
  PR is moved back to the `reviewer_assigned` state.
  
At this point, the cycle is complete, and it repeats from the beginning until
the reviewer is satisfied with the PR and submits their approval.

### Merge criteria

With a clear framework in place for reviewing and approving pull requests, it's
now more feasible for the Enarx project to begin enforcing stricter merge
requirements.

A pull request should only be merged when:

> - all required code tests pass
> - it has two or more approving reviews
> - every reviewer that has submitted a review has updated their review to
>   "Approved"

Reviewer 3: All of these are good. However, while i realise these checks are more on the "tickbox" level and this may not fit here, there is no mention of documentation, neither here nor, to the best my reading, in the overall document.

We could possibly add something as simple as:

```suggestion
- all required code tests pass
- it has two or more approving reviews
- every reviewer that has submitted a review has updated their review to
  "Approved"
- any changes that require documentation to be understandable and/or maintainable have the required associated documentation
```

Author: Good point. I've addressed this in my latest version.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- all required code tests pass
- it has two or more reviews in the `APPROVED` state
- it has no reviews in the `CHANGES_REQUESTED` state
- it has no reviews in the `DISMISSED` state
```

- Implementing some of the automation exactly as specified may end up being a
  challenge. There's further discussion of this below.

## Rationale and alternatives

There are many ways to approach sprints, and we can't claim this is the best
possible sprint methodology out there; only time will tell if this works for us
once we start using it. Additionally, this process is not set in stone; anything
can change from one sprint to the next. However, there are a few nice
characteristics worth highlighting:

- Enarx is still a fairly small team, and we like some flexibility in our
  process. The modular design of our board supports that -- for example, if we
  consider a new issue or pull request particularly important, we can manually
  assign it and have it skip the backlog entirely.
- Moving to a single, organization-level board allows visitors to see a snapshot
  of what's currently a top priority for Enarx.
- With automation, this process has potential to minimize the busywork that
  project developers have to deal with, and only require human judgment when it
  is needed.
- Running through a triage every day ensures issues are promptly reviewed by the

>   team after they are submitted.

Reviewer 3: I have not seen been done before, but i like the idea. I'm looking forward to seeing how this works out, as i think the idea of spreading out a backlog grooming, doing a bit every day, is quite smart.

- PRs represent work that has already been done and needs to be reviewed before
  being merged into the main codebase. As such, they will almost always be
  attached to an issue in the current sprint, and should be treated as an
  extension of that issue. The sole purpose of triaging a new PR is to ensure it
  has reviewers requested and assigned. Once that's done, it gets put in the
  current sprint.

### Project Board

A common concept in many project workflows, the **project board** is also how the
Enarx project organizes its work.

Currently, the project uses multiple area-specific boards. This proposal
abandons that idea and instead uses a single, unified project board that
contains the entire project backlog and all current work.

The board will be organized with the following columns:

- backlog: collection of issues not currently being worked on
- nominated: issues nominated by team members for the next sprint (planning)
- accepted: issues the team should work on next sprint (planning)
- assigned: issues actively being worked on by an assigned team member
- under review: all submitted PRs go here while awaiting review

> - done: all issues and PRs go here when done or merged, respectively

Reviewer 4: We need one additional board: `triage`. The bot should put all open issues that are not in the project board into the `triage` column.

# Agile Sprint Process for Enarx
- Authors: [Mark Bestavros](mbestavr@redhat.com)
- Status: [PROPOSED](/README.md#proposed)
- Since: 2020-05-06
- Status Note: Concept brainstormed, awaiting implementation
- Supersedes: N/A
- Start Date: 2020-05-01
- Tags: process, sprint, concept

## Summary

Enarx has been using its daily standup and board organization for a while. It's
worked for us as a small team, but as we grow, we anticipate it becoming
unsustainable. It also doesn't do a good job capturing the current thrust of our
work. This RFC proposes a replacement process, designed around the agile sprint
methodology.

## Motivation

The Enarx project needs to organize its work better, and in a more sustainable
way than before. We need to do a better job planning for medium-term work and
goals, and in a way that scales more effectively than our prior process.

### Tracking Work

> As a Github-native project, Enarx categorizes its work with the two major

Reviewer 5: Sorry for nitpicking, but I would suggest spelling it as "GitHub".

Author: Fixed!
